DevOps & Deployment Guide: DevOps & Deployment Guide Purpose This document
describes the DevOps practices, deployment topology and infrastructure
automation necessary to run MaintAInPro at scale. It reflects the engineering
rigour expected at organisations like Google, NASA, OpenAI and Stripe:
infrastructure must be reproducible, secure by default, observable and designed
for continuous delivery.

The guide assumes the reader is familiar with the architecture and data model
documents. It aligns the CI/CD process with the requirements traceability matrix
and emphasises how to configure environments, manage secrets, monitor health and
perform rollbacks.

Environments and topology MaintAInPro is delivered as a cloud‑native
application. Three primary environments are maintained:

Development – used by developers for local and shared testing. All services run
locally using Docker Compose, including a PostgreSQL instance and storage
emulator. The front‑end runs in watch mode, reloading on changes. Test data is
reset nightly.

Staging – a QA environment that mirrors production. Deployments are
automatically triggered from the main branch after passing tests. Staging uses
managed databases and storage, enabling load and integration testing without
affecting production data.

Production – the customer‑facing environment. It is highly available, uses
multi‑AZ databases and object storage, and enforces strict authentication and
row‑level security policies GitHub .

Each environment has its own Supabase project (for hosted deployments) or a
self‑hosted Postgres cluster and object storage (for on‑premise). Environment
variables configure connection strings, API keys and third‑party integrations.
MaintAInPro’s current repository already demonstrates environment variable usage
for Supabase keys and JWT secrets GitHub .

Containerization & orchestration All components are packaged as OCI‑compliant
containers:

Web client – a Node image serving a static build via serve or Nginx. It is
compiled during CI using npm run build and includes a service worker and PWA
manifest GitHub . The container exposes port 80.

Mobile/PWA build – the same codebase is compiled as a Progressive Web App with
offline caching and IndexedDB support GitHub . When a native mobile app is
required, the code can be exported to React Native and built using Expo.

Serverless functions – Supabase edge functions or AWS Lambda functions are
defined for scheduled tasks such as escalation checking and preventive
maintenance scheduling GitHub . These functions are deployed independently and
triggered via cron or event subscriptions.

For self‑hosted deployments, containers are orchestrated with Kubernetes. The
standard Helm chart provisions deployments, services, ingress controllers and
persistent volumes. Each microservice is defined as a Kubernetes deployment,
with readiness and liveness probes to enable automated restarts and
zero‑downtime rolling updates. Horizontal Pod Autoscalers (HPAs) scale based on
CPU and request latency. Secrets are injected via Kubernetes Secrets or
HashiCorp Vault.

Continuous integration & delivery pipeline The CI/CD pipeline is implemented
using GitHub Actions and follows these stages:

Checkout & setup – Pull the repository, install dependencies and set up Node.

Static analysis – Run ESLint and Prettier to enforce code standards GitHub . Run
TypeScript type checking in strict mode and fail on any errors.

Unit & component tests – Execute Vitest for unit tests and React Testing Library
for components. Measure code coverage and enforce a minimum threshold (e.g.,
90%).

Integration & end‑to‑end tests – Use Playwright to run cross‑browser E2E tests
that simulate user flows, including offline behaviour and PWA installation
GitHub . Mutation testing may be executed for critical modules.

Build & package – Build the front‑end and mobile PWA, bundle edge functions and
create Docker images. Images are tagged with the Git SHA and pushed to a
registry.

Security scanning – Run Snyk or Trivy to scan dependencies and container images
for vulnerabilities. Verify that secrets are not hard‑coded. Perform dependency
license checks.

Deploy to staging – Deploy to the staging Kubernetes cluster using Helm. Run
smoke tests to ensure the deployment is healthy.

Manual approval – Require a human review to promote changes from staging to
production. Check release notes and ensure high‑risk migrations are coordinated.

Deploy to production – Use blue/green or canary deployments. In a blue/green
deployment, the new version is deployed alongside the existing one, traffic is
gradually shifted, and metrics are monitored before decommissioning the old
version.

Rollback strategy If a deployment introduces errors or performance regressions,
the system can be rolled back by reverting to the previous container images.
Kubernetes Helm releases are versioned; rolling back simply involves specifying
the previous release version. Database migrations are reversible using tools
like sqitch or prisma migrate; a down migration script accompanies every
migration.

Configuration management & secrets Environment configuration is managed via .env
files for local development and Kubernetes ConfigMaps or Secrets for
staging/production. Sensitive values (JWT secrets, database passwords, OAuth
client secrets) must never be committed to source control. Instead, use Vault or
environment variables injected via CI secrets. Supabase configuration (URL,
anon/public/service keys) must be stored securely GitHub .

The application uses dotenv to load configuration at runtime. When building the
PWA, the build process inlines non‑secret configuration (e.g., Supabase URL)
into the static assets. Secret keys are only loaded at runtime on the server
side.

Observability: logging, monitoring & alerting High‑availability systems require
comprehensive observability:

Structured logging – All services emit structured JSON logs with request IDs,
user IDs (where appropriate), latency, status codes and error messages. Logs
from the web client can be forwarded to a log server via a centralised logging
service.

Metrics – Export Prometheus metrics from containers (e.g., request rate,
latency, error rate, memory and CPU usage). Database metrics (connection count,
query latency) are exposed via exporters. Supabase and Postgres metrics include
replication lag and row‑level security policy hits GitHub .

Tracing – Use OpenTelemetry for distributed tracing across the client, edge
functions and database. Traces help identify slow queries or network
bottlenecks.

Alerting – Configure alerts in Prometheus or a managed service (PagerDuty/Slack)
for high error rates, slow response times, abnormal increase in database
connections or offline queue backlog GitHub .

Deployment flexibility While MaintAInPro is designed around Supabase, some
customers may require an on‑premise deployment or a different cloud provider.
The system therefore supports multiple deployment strategies:

Hosted – Use Supabase SaaS for database, authentication and storage. Deploy the
front‑end to a CDN (e.g., Netlify, Vercel). Edge functions are deployed via
Supabase.

Hybrid – Use managed Postgres (e.g., AWS RDS) and object storage (e.g., S3) but
run the application and functions in your own Kubernetes cluster. Supabase
client can still be used for real‑time subscriptions, but row‑level security
policies and functions must be reimplemented using Postgres features and
Node.js/Go microservices.

Self‑hosted – Deploy Postgres, storage and realtime servers using Docker Compose
or Kubernetes. Use the open‑source Supabase stack or build custom microservices
in Nest.js/Go. Provide a Helm chart that provisions all components.

Release & change management Every deployment is accompanied by release notes
that document new features, bug fixes and database migrations. The release notes
link back to the requirements traceability matrix and indicate which
requirements were addressed GitHub . Major releases are versioned semantically
(e.g., v2.0.0), while minor and patch releases follow v2.1.0 and v2.1.1
patterns.

Changes that modify the database schema require careful coordination. A
pre‑deployment script takes a snapshot of the database, applies migrations and
verifies that indexes are created on frequently queried columns to meet
performance requirements GitHub .

Conclusion By following this guide, teams can deploy MaintAInPro in a
repeatable, secure and observable manner. The DevOps practices described here –
containerization, automation, continuous testing, monitoring and controlled
rollouts – embody the operational excellence demanded by elite engineering
organisations.

Performance & Scalability Plan: Performance & Scalability Plan Purpose This
document outlines the strategies and technical measures to ensure MaintAInPro
remains responsive and reliable as usage grows. It encompasses performance
optimisation, capacity planning and horizontal scaling. The plan draws on
industry best practices from organisations like Google, NASA, OpenAI and Stripe,
ensuring the application can handle enterprise‑level workloads without
sacrificing user experience or data integrity.

Performance objectives Latency targets – API endpoints should respond within
200 ms at the 95th percentile under nominal load. P99 latency should not exceed
500 ms. End‑to‑end user operations (page loads, form submissions) should
complete within 1 second for 90% of interactions on broadband connections.

Throughput – Support at least 1,000 concurrent users in the first phase, with an
ability to scale to tens of thousands as adoption grows. Each user may generate
multiple real‑time subscriptions, background sync operations and analytics
queries.

Data consistency – Maintain strong consistency for transactional operations
(e.g., work order creation) and eventual consistency for analytics and offline
sync queues. Ensure that row‑level security policies do not degrade performance
GitHub .

Application optimisation Backend optimisation Database schema – Optimise the
PostgreSQL schema by adding indexes on columns frequently used in WHERE, JOIN or
ORDER BY clauses (e.g., work_orders.status, work_orders.assigned_to,
equipment.asset_tag). For text search, use GIN indexes with tsvector columns.
The performance guidelines of the Supabase API recommend creating indexes and
caching query results GitHub .

Query tuning – Use EXPLAIN ANALYZE to identify slow queries. Rewrite N+1 queries
using joins or batch selects. Where appropriate, store denormalised aggregates
(e.g., counts of open work orders per equipment) in materialised views and
refresh them periodically.

Connection pooling – When using serverless functions, manage database
connections via a connection pooler (e.g., PgBouncer). Supabase recommends
limiting concurrent connections and using pooling to avoid saturating the
database GitHub .

Edge functions – Offload heavy or scheduled computation (e.g., preventive
maintenance scheduling, escalation checks) to edge functions GitHub . This
prevents long‑running tasks from blocking user‑facing endpoints.

Caching – Introduce a caching layer (Redis) in front of the database for
frequently accessed but infrequently changing data (e.g., equipment definitions,
PM templates). Use HTTP caching (ETags) on read‑only endpoints. Client‑side
caching with SWR or React Query reduces redundant requests.

Front‑end optimisation Code splitting & lazy loading – Break the React
application into chunks and load modules on demand. Use dynamic imports for
feature modules (e.g., work order management) and defers non‑critical components
until idle time. This reduces the initial bundle size and accelerates first
paint.

Service worker & PWA – Leverage the service worker to cache static assets and
API responses, enabling offline usage and faster reloads. The PWA manifest
defines caching strategies and offline fallbacks GitHub . Ensure that caching
does not serve stale data by invalidating cache entries upon updates.

IndexedDB sync – Use IndexedDB and the sync_queue table for offline data storage
and background synchronization GitHub . Implement diff‑based syncing: transmit
only changed fields rather than entire records. Limit sync frequency to preserve
battery life on mobile devices.

Virtualisation – For lists of work orders or equipment, use
windowing/virtualisation (e.g., react-window) to render only visible items.
Implement pagination or infinite scrolling. Avoid large DOM re‑renders by
memoizing components.

Responsive images & compression – Optimise images (QR codes, attachments) using
modern formats (WebP) and responsive sizes. Compress JSON payloads using gzip or
Brotli. Lazy‑load images as users scroll.

Scaling strategy Horizontal scaling Stateless services – The front‑end server
and edge functions are stateless. They can be scaled horizontally by adding more
replicas behind a load balancer. Use Kubernetes HPAs to scale pods based on
CPU/memory utilisation or custom metrics (requests per second).

Database scaling – Scale the database by adding read replicas for read‑heavy
workloads. Write operations go to the primary. Use Supabase’s built‑in
replication or configure PostgreSQL streaming replication when self‑hosting.
Partition large tables (e.g., system_logs) by date or tenant id to improve query
performance.

Sharding & multitenancy – As organisations are added, consider sharding by
tenant to isolate workloads. Each shard can reside on a separate database
instance, reducing contention. This is an advanced evolution and requires
careful key management.

Autoscaling edge functions – Configure concurrency limits and memory settings
for serverless functions. Ensure cold start times are acceptable by using
warmers or reserved concurrency.

Message queues – Introduce a message queue (e.g., RabbitMQ or Kafka) for
asynchronous workloads: sending notifications, processing integrations,
performing heavy analytics. Consumers can scale independently of the producers.

Vertical scaling Vertical scaling (upgrading compute resources) remains an
option for small deployments. Choose instance types with sufficient memory to
cache indexes and handle query concurrency. However, vertical scaling has limits
and should complement, not replace, horizontal scaling.

Stress testing & capacity planning Load testing – Use tools like K6 or Locust to
simulate concurrent users performing typical workflows: listing work orders,
scanning QR codes, syncing offline data. Gradually increase traffic to identify
the saturation point.

Soak testing – Run prolonged tests to detect memory leaks or resource
exhaustion. Simulate 24 hours of operation with periodic peaks.

Chaos engineering – Inject failures (database node failure, network latency) to
test system resilience. Verify that the offline sync queue continues to function
and that row‑level security policies hold under failover conditions GitHub .

Capacity planning – Based on stress test results, project resource requirements
for growth scenarios. Use performance metrics to adjust replication factors,
cache sizes and container limits.

Monitoring & performance budget Define a performance budget: maximum acceptable
size for the initial JS bundle (e.g., 200 KB), limit API response sizes (e.g.,
100 KB), and restrict network requests on initial load to fewer than 10. Set up
dashboards that track these metrics in real time. When budgets are exceeded,
create tasks to remediate.

Future scaling considerations As the system evolves to support thousands of
tenants and advanced analytics, consider the following enhancements:

Microservices – Break the monolithic API into domain‑oriented services (work
order service, inventory service, analytics service). Each service can be
deployed independently and scaled based on its specific load pattern.

Event sourcing & CQRS – For high write volume and complex workflows, adopt an
event sourcing model. Commands produce events that are stored in an immutable
log; projections generate queryable views. This pattern improves scalability and
auditing.

GraphQL API – Expose a GraphQL layer to allow clients to request exactly the
data they need, reducing overfetching and underfetching. Use persisted queries
to improve caching.

Edge caching & CDN – Move static assets and API caching to edge networks (e.g.,
Cloudflare Workers) to reduce latency globally. Use global data distribution for
multi‑region deployments.

Conclusion MaintAInPro’s performance and scalability plan combines low‑level
optimisation (indexes, caching, connection pooling) with high‑level
architectural strategies (horizontal/vertical scaling, sharding, microservices).
By adopting continuous performance testing and capacity planning, the system can
scale gracefully while delivering a responsive user experience. These principles
align with the stringent performance targets upheld by elite engineering
organisations.

UX & Design Guidelines: UX & Design Guidelines Purpose The user experience (UX)
of a Computerized Maintenance Management System (CMMS) directly affects
technician productivity, data accuracy and adoption. This document sets out
principles and guidelines for designing a cohesive, accessible and
mobile‑friendly interface for MaintAInPro. It draws inspiration from the design
systems and best practices adopted by leading technology companies.

Design principles User‑centric design – Understand the needs and workflows of
diverse personas (technicians, supervisors, administrators). Prioritise quick
task completion and information retrieval. Provide sensible defaults and
contextual help.

Consistency & clarity – Use a consistent visual language (colors, typography,
spacing) and UI patterns across modules. Components in the work order module
should behave similarly to those in inventory. Leverage an internal design
system built atop Tailwind CSS and Radix primitives (already used in
MaintAInPro) GitHub .

Accessibility – Comply with WCAG 2.1 AA. All interactive elements must be
keyboard navigable; color contrast ratios must meet accessibility standards.
Provide ARIA labels on custom components and use semantic HTML. Automated
accessibility tests are already integrated into MaintAInPro’s pipeline GitHub .

Mobile‑first & responsive – Design layouts that adapt gracefully from mobile to
desktop. Use responsive grids, fluid typography and touch‑friendly controls. The
service worker and PWA features enable offline usage GitHub ; design screens
assuming intermittent connectivity.

Progressive disclosure – Present only the necessary information at a given
moment. Use collapsible panels, tabs and accordions to avoid overwhelming users.
Provide detailed views on demand.

Performance – Optimise for fast interactions: avoid long lists by implementing
pagination and search; prefetch data when possible; provide feedback during
loading. Limit the number of modals or stepper dialogs.

Visual design system Color & theming Adopt a neutral base palette (grays) with
accent colours conveying status and priority:

Primary accent for actions (e.g., creating a work order).

Success (green) for completed items.

Warning (orange) for due soon.

Danger (red) for overdue or error states.

Support dark mode by defining parallel color variables. Expose a theming
mechanism so organisations can customise colours and branding, similar to
Atlas CMMS’s white‑labeling feature raw.githubusercontent.com .

Typography Use a scalable sans‑serif font (e.g., Inter) with a base size of
16px. Apply a clear hierarchy: headings (H1–H4), labels, body text and captions.
Avoid excessive bolding or italics. Ensure text remains legible on small
screens.

Layout & spacing Define a 4px spacing scale. Use flexbox or CSS grid for
responsive layouts. Maintain generous white space to reduce cognitive load.
Align labels and form elements consistently.

Components & patterns The application should build upon a library of reusable
components:

Forms – Use React Hook Form with Zod for validation. Display validation messages
inline. Support keyboard navigation and screen readers.

Tables & lists – Provide sortable and filterable tables. Use virtualization for
long lists. Include bulk action checkboxes and actions like export or print.

Cards & panels – Represent equipment, work orders and parts in card layouts on
mobile; provide summary information with icons and badges indicating status.

Modals & drawers – Use modals sparingly. For complex tasks (e.g., work order
creation), use a side drawer or stepper wizard to guide the user.

Navigation – Implement a collapsible sidebar for desktop and a bottom tab bar
for mobile. Clearly indicate the current section with icons and text. Use
breadcrumbs for deep navigation.

Search & filters – Provide global search and module‑specific filters (status,
priority, date range). Use auto‑complete for selecting equipment or users.

Notifications – Display real‑time alerts (e.g., new work order assigned) via
toast notifications. Provide a notification center with filters by type and
date.

Interaction design & workflows Work order lifecycle Design the work order pages
to reflect the entire lifecycle: creation, assignment, in progress, completed,
closed. Use a status badge and progress bar. Provide quick actions (start timer,
add note, upload attachment) in a toolbar. When offline, clearly indicate that
actions will be synced later GitHub .

Equipment & inventory management Provide a dashboard summarising equipment
health, downtime and upcoming maintenance tasks. For scanning QR codes, design a
dedicated scanning screen that launches the camera, highlights the detection
area and displays the asset details instantly. For inventory, design a stock
overview with color indicators for low stock and reorder levels. Use modals or
drawers to add transactions.

Preventive maintenance & scheduling Use calendars and timelines to visualise
upcoming preventive maintenance tasks. Provide drag‑and‑drop scheduling for
adjusting dates. Include tooltips showing template details (frequency, actions)
GitHub .

Multi‑tenant & user management Include a tenant selector in the header. When
users switch organisations, ensure that data filters and row‑level security
policies change accordingly GitHub . Provide profile settings, role management
and permission configuration within an admin portal.

Offline & error states Because the application functions offline, design
explicit states for connectivity and synchronization:

Display an offline indicator when the device is not connected. Inform users that
data will be saved locally and synced later GitHub .

Use skeleton loaders while data loads. Provide retry buttons on errors.

Show a sync status (e.g., pending, syncing, error) in a dedicated section or
toast.

Prompt users to resolve conflicts when local changes cannot be merged
automatically.

Accessibility & inclusivity Keyboard navigation – All controls must support tab
and shift‑tab navigation. Provide focus outlines.

Screen reader support – Use semantic HTML elements (<button>, <nav>, <main>) and
ARIA roles. Provide descriptive alt text for images and icons. Announce updates
(e.g., new notifications) via live regions.

Language & localisation – Externalise all strings and support multiple
languages. Ensure layout accommodates text expansion. Mirror layout for RTL
languages when needed.

Visual impairments – Support zooming and high‑contrast mode. Avoid conveying
information by colour alone; pair colours with icons or labels.

Motor & cognitive impairments – Provide large clickable/tappable targets; avoid
time‑limited tasks; offer undo or confirmation for destructive actions.

Documentation & collaboration Maintain a living style guide documenting
components, patterns and usage examples. Provide Figma or design tokens to
developers. Encourage cross‑functional collaboration between designers,
engineers and users. Capture design decisions and rationale in ADRs
(Architectural Decision Records) to provide context for future changes.

Conclusion By adhering to these design guidelines, MaintAInPro will deliver a
polished, intuitive and accessible experience across web and mobile platforms. A
well‑crafted user experience not only improves efficiency for technicians and
managers but also reflects the calibre of engineering practised by world‑class
organisations.

Change Management & Roadmap: Change Management & Roadmap Purpose This document
describes the structured process for managing change and outlines the roadmap
for developing MaintAInPro into an enterprise‑grade CMMS. Effective change
management ensures that new features deliver value, preserve system stability
and maintain traceability from requirements through implementation to
deployment. The roadmap prioritises work based on the gap analysis and divides
the journey into phases with clear milestones and deliverables.

Change management process Requirement gathering & analysis – Collect new
requirements from stakeholders (maintenance managers, technicians, business
owners). Use the requirements specification and traceability matrix to ensure
each requirement is documented, prioritised and mapped to existing modules
GitHub .

Proposal & design – For each change, prepare a design proposal (architecture, UI
mock‑ups, API changes). Conduct design reviews with engineers, designers and QA.
Record decisions in Architectural Decision Records.

Impact assessment – Assess the impact of the change on performance, security and
compliance. Identify migration needs, test coverage impacts and potential risks.
Update the risk register and the performance/scalability plan as needed GitHub .

Implementation & testing – Develop the change in a feature branch. Follow
test‑driven development; update unit, integration and E2E tests. Run the full CI
pipeline and ensure quality gates pass (code coverage, mutation testing,
vulnerability scanning).

Code review & approval – Submit a pull request for peer review. Reviewers verify
adherence to coding standards, architecture guidelines and design patterns. Only
after approval and successful CI checks is the change merged into the main
branch.

Staging deployment & UAT – Deploy to staging. Conduct user acceptance testing
(UAT) with a subset of end users. Collect feedback and adjust if necessary.

Release planning – Prepare release notes describing the change, linked to
requirements and tickets. Plan deployment windows to minimise disruption.
Communicate changes to stakeholders and provide training or documentation.

Production deployment & monitoring – Deploy to production using the DevOps
pipeline with canary or blue/green strategies. Monitor health metrics and error
logs. Roll back if anomalies are detected.

Post‑deployment review – Conduct a retrospective to evaluate the success of the
change. Update documentation and the traceability matrix. Capture lessons
learned for continuous improvement.

Roadmap overview The roadmap builds on the gap analysis and outlines four
phases. Each phase includes major modules and deliverables, with approximate
durations. The sequence may overlap where dependencies allow.

Phase 2 – Core Modules & Mobile MVP (0–3 months) Work order management –
Implement CRUD operations, assignment, status transitions, time tracking and
history GitHub . Introduce UI pages and real‑time updates. Build
React Native/PWA screens for technicians with offline support GitHub .

Equipment & asset management – Develop equipment registration, hierarchical
relationships and QR‑code integration. Build inventory management using parts
and transactions tables GitHub . Implement vendor management and purchase
approvals.

Mobile & offline infrastructure – Finalise the offline architecture with
IndexedDB caching and background sync GitHub . Provide push notifications for
work order assignments.

Testing & documentation – Expand test suites and update user documentation for
new modules.

Phase 3 – Advanced Features & Workflow Engine (3–6 months) Preventive
maintenance (PM) – Create PM templates, scheduling and calendar views GitHub .
Deploy a scheduler function to generate work orders automatically GitHub .

Workflow & automation engine – Design a generic state machine to handle
approvals, escalations and custom workflows across modules. Provide a UI for
administrators to configure workflows without code changes.

Analytics & reporting – Build dashboards for compliance, downtime and cost
analysis raw.githubusercontent.com . Implement export options (CSV, PDF). Use
Supabase views and materialised views to pre‑aggregate data for performance
GitHub .

Security & multi‑tenant – Enhance row‑level security policies to support
multiple organisations and granular permissions GitHub . Add SSO integrations
raw.githubusercontent.com .

Phase 4 – Enterprise Scalability & Polish (6–12 months) Performance &
scalability – Introduce caching, read replicas and optional migration to
microservices GitHub . Optimise queries, indexes and connection pooling.

Advanced analytics & AI – Explore predictive maintenance and anomaly detection
using machine learning. Provide insights and recommendations based on historical
data.

Compliance & audit – Implement full audit trails and data retention policies
GitHub . Support ISO 9001 and FDA compliance.

Ecosystem & integrations – Add REST/GraphQL APIs, webhooks and connectors to
external systems (IoT sensors, ERP). Provide import/export capabilities.

Commercial features & customisation – Offer white‑labeling and licensing.
Support custom branding similar to Atlas CMMS raw.githubusercontent.com .

Continuous improvements Even after Phase 4, the roadmap continues. Regularly
reassess priorities based on user feedback, market trends and technology
advancements. Address technical debt, perform refactoring and maintain high test
coverage and documentation quality. Keep the traceability matrix updated to link
new features and fixes back to requirements.

Conclusion A disciplined change management process and a clearly articulated
roadmap enable MaintAInPro to evolve predictably and sustainably. By aligning
engineering efforts with business priorities and maintaining rigorous quality
gates, the project can achieve and exceed the capabilities of competitor CMMS
solutions while adhering to the standards of top engineering organisations.

Incident Response & Disaster Recovery Plan: Incident Response & Disaster
Recovery Plan Purpose This plan defines procedures for detecting, responding to
and recovering from incidents that affect the availability, confidentiality or
integrity of MaintAInPro. It also establishes disaster recovery strategies to
maintain business continuity in the face of catastrophic failures. The objective
is to minimise downtime, data loss and operational impact while ensuring
compliance with regulatory requirements. The plan draws from incident management
frameworks used by high‑reliability organisations.

Incident response process

1. Preparation Monitoring & alerting – Configure comprehensive monitoring across
   all services. Metrics and logs (as described in the DevOps guide) generate
   alerts for anomalies: error rates, latency spikes, unexpected permissions
   denials (RLS policy failures) GitHub , database replication lag, offline sync
   queue backlog GitHub .

Runbooks – Create runbooks for common incidents (e.g., database outage, auth
service failure, data corruption). Include step‑by‑step diagnosis and
remediation instructions.

Training & drills – Conduct regular incident response drills. Ensure all team
members understand the on‑call rota, communication channels and escalation
paths.

Access control – Enforce least privilege on access to production systems. Use
role‑based access and multi‑factor authentication. Audit logs of administrative
actions are stored in the system_logs table GitHub .

2. Detection & classification Alert triage – When an alert triggers, the on‑call
   engineer evaluates its severity and validity. Incidents are classified as

P0/Critical – Complete loss of service, data breach or security incident.

P1/High – Degraded performance, partial outage affecting key workflows.

P2/Medium – Non‑critical service impairment or bug impacting a small set of
users.

False positives – Investigate and suppress noise. Tune alert thresholds and
detectors.

3. Containment & mitigation Immediate actions – Depending on the classification,
   enact quick measures: scale up replicas, restart failing pods, disable a
   malfunctioning feature flag, or revoke compromised credentials.

Preserve evidence – For security incidents, capture logs and system state for
forensic analysis. Avoid altering evidence by following incident forensics
procedures.

Communication – Notify stakeholders (engineering, management, affected
customers). Use defined channels (e.g., Slack incident room). Provide regular
updates on the mitigation progress.

4. Eradication & recovery Root cause elimination – Identify and fix the
   underlying cause. For example, if a database migration introduced a
   performance regression, revert or patch it. If a row‑level security policy
   misconfiguration caused a data leak, update the policy GitHub .

Data restoration – Restore data from backups if corruption or loss occurred.
Ensure referential integrity and apply any missing transactions from the offline
sync queue. Supabase or Postgres backups (daily snapshots and WAL shipping) are
used for restoration. Validate the restored data and run integrity checks.

Service restoration – Gradually bring services back online. Monitor for
recurring issues. Once stable, remove any temporary workarounds.

5. Post‑incident analysis Incident report – Within 24 hours, compile a report
   detailing the timeline, impact, root cause, actions taken and lessons
   learned. Include links to logs, metrics and the relevant system_logs entries
   GitHub .

Postmortem review – Hold a blameless postmortem with all stakeholders. Identify
contributing factors and improvement actions. Update runbooks, monitoring and
processes based on findings.

Follow‑up tasks – Track remediation tasks in the issue tracker. Prioritise
actions that prevent recurrence (e.g., automated tests, additional alerting,
process changes).

Disaster recovery strategy Risk assessment Potential disasters include: data
centre outages, regional network failures, catastrophic bugs, ransomware attacks
and natural disasters. Each risk is assessed for likelihood and impact. The
disaster recovery plan defines acceptable Recovery Time Objective (RTO) and
Recovery Point Objective (RPO) for each scenario.

Data backups & redundancy Database backups – Perform automated daily backups of
the Postgres database and maintain write‑ahead log (WAL) archiving. Store
backups in multiple regions and encrypt them at rest. Test restore procedures
quarterly.

Object storage – Store files (attachments, QR codes) in object storage with
versioning enabled. Replicate data across availability zones or cloud regions.
For self‑hosted deployments, use MinIO or Ceph with erasure coding
raw.githubusercontent.com .

Configuration & secrets – Backup environment configuration and secrets using
secure password managers or secret management tools. Ensure that cryptographic
keys (JWT secrets) can be rotated and restored.

High availability & failover Multi‑zone deployment – Run production services
across multiple availability zones. Use a managed database with automatic
failover. For on‑premise, set up a hot standby Postgres replica and configure
failover using Patroni or similar tools.

Load balancing & health checks – Employ load balancers that perform active
health checks and route traffic away from unhealthy instances. Implement circuit
breakers to prevent cascading failures.

DNS failover – Use DNS records with low TTLs to shift traffic to backup regions
during regional outages.

Disaster recovery procedures Activation – When a disaster is declared (e.g.,
data centre outage), the DR lead activates the disaster recovery plan and
notifies the team.

Failover – Switch to secondary infrastructure (database replicas, standby
servers) in another region. Restore service with the most recent backups.
Validate that row‑level security policies and functions behave correctly in the
new environment GitHub .

Verification – Run smoke tests to ensure core functions (authentication, work
order creation, offline sync) operate correctly. Communicate recovery status to
stakeholders.

Fallback – Once the primary region is stable, plan and execute a fallback to
normal operations. Ensure data consistency between regions.

Testing & maintenance DR drills – Conduct regular disaster recovery exercises,
simulating failovers and data restorations. Document outcomes and refine
procedures.

Backup validation – Periodically restore backups to a staging environment to
ensure they are usable and complete.

Security reviews – Evaluate backup retention policies against regulatory
requirements (e.g., GDPR). Ensure encryption keys are rotated and access
controls enforced.

Security & privacy considerations Incident response must respect privacy laws
and contractual obligations. Limit access to sensitive data during
investigations. If a data breach occurs, perform notification in accordance with
regulations (GDPR, CCPA). Ensure that multi‑tenant isolation is maintained and
that one organisation’s data is not exposed to another GitHub .

Conclusion An organised incident response and disaster recovery program is
essential for maintaining trust and reliability. By preparing, monitoring,
responding quickly and learning from incidents, MaintAInPro can achieve high
availability and resilience comparable to mission‑critical systems at leading
engineering companies.
